Retire Young Retire Rich
17
“Come on,” said Larry. “You’re being a wimp. Instead of setting 
simple one-year goals, let’s go for it. Let’s set a big multiyear goal.  
Let’s go for freedom.”
“But we don’t have much money,” I said, looking over at Kim, 
whose face reflected my concerns. “You know we’re starting over again. 
All we want to do is survive for the next six months and maybe a year. 
How can we think about financial freedom when all I can think about 
right now is financial survival?” Again I was shocked at how wimpy  
I sounded. My self-confidence was really low. My energy was really low.
“Even better. Think of this as a fresh start.” Larry was now on it.  
He would not stop.
“But how can we retire early when we don’t have any money?”  
I protested. I could hear more and more of the wimp in me coming  
out. I felt weak inside and did not want to commit to something just 
yet. I just wanted to survive for the financial short term and to not  
think about the future.
“I did not say we were going to retire in a year,” said Larry, now 
irritated with my wimpy responses. “All I am saying is, let’s plan on 
retiring now. Let’s write down the goal, create a plan, and then focus 
on the idea. Most people do not think about retiring until it’s too late, 
or they plan on retiring when they’re sixty-five. I don’t want to do that. 
I want a better plan. I don’t want to spend my life working just to pay 
bills. I want to live. I want to be rich. I want to travel the world while  
I am young enough to enjoy it.”
As I sat there listening to Larry sell me on the benefits of setting 
such a goal, I could hear the little voice inside me telling me why 
setting a goal to be financially free and retiring early was unrealistic.  
It even sounded impossible.
Larry continued. He did not seem to care if Kim or I were 
listening so I tuned him out as I began to think about what he had 
said. Silently, I said to myself, “Setting a goal to retire early is a good 
idea, so why am I fighting it? It is not like me to fight a good idea.”
Suddenly, in my silence, I began to hear my rich dad saying,  
“The biggest challenge you have is to challenge your own self-doubt 
and your laziness. It is your self-doubt and your laziness that define 
